This is in life.
Welcome back.
Let's take a look at this armor now or the buckle and the shoulder armor.
As I said before I'd like to maybe use these colors here for these pieces.
I also have another reference image that I kind of liked.
The problem with reflective materials is that it so much depends on the lighting and the environment.
So let me just open up this one and let's take a look at this one.
Here it is Renaissance half armor.
Let me take a look at that.
So here's the armor.
And you can see that so much of it is the orange lights in the room whereas this one really has a different
color of light to the room.
So I'm going to try and use both or at least I want to have them both up so I can use them as needed.
But I really like this these colors here.
Let's give it a try.
I'm going to come over to the model and with the face masking turned on I'm going to hit the A key and
then I'm going to hover over the buckles hit the L key and the shoulder armor and hit the L key and
then I'm going to come in here and hit L to catch these side pieces here.
And I'll also add these parts up here.
OK.
So and L there so now I should have them all selected.
And now I can begin thinking about how to lay some color down here to get this kind of kind of a look.
This color is fairly dark but I think we can find some darker colors in here.
Let me hold the key down and I'll try and sample one of these colors here something like this so I'll
switch to this color maybe make it even a little darker.
Let me see what kind of texture I still have the noise brush texture on it and my jitter and spacing
are reasonable I guess.
Let's see if we can do with this.
I'm going to zoom in a bit.
Now I have the belt pushing through the buckle here and I'll fix that soon.
I just need to go into edit mode and pull that point back a bit.
But since I have the leather belt masked off I shouldn't be painting on that in any way.
So let's just see what happens I'll just do a stroke here see if anything happens.
Not much.
Let's increase the strength.
See what happens.
OK so now we can begin to see it may reduce the strength a bit.
And I just want to come in here to the creases and maybe just add a little bit of darker color in here.
And maybe around the inside as well.
Something like that.
I'm also going to hover over the belt buckle and press alt F and that'll center my cursor up or center
that object up in the view.
And now as I tumble I'll tumble around that object so I continue laying down some of the darker color
here.
I'll turn the spacing down even more too much bring that up.
Reduce the strength a little bit.
So it's all a balancing act to see which you can get.
So now that I've got some of that darker color in here to try and sample some of that there's some bluish
color in here.
There it is.
You can see it coming up in here as I hover over it with the keyhole to me as key down something like
that.
Let me try and get in here.
I'm going to increase the size of the brush and let me just see what happens if I do this.
Yeah that kind of lays it down nice.
I like that one to reduce the strength to a little more and just come in here and add some of that blue
and I'm kind of going with the three foot rule here.
My wife sews and does alterations and embroidery.
And one of the tests is if a piece of clothing will look good from three feet away.
And that's kind of what I'm going for here the three foot rule.
Now notice what happens here as I paint.
I'm getting paint on this as well.
And if you recall the reason why that is is because they're over lapping each other.
Let me see if I can find where the armor is.
I'm going to hover over this window and press control up arrow.
Here it is right here.
So as I'm painting it's laying paint down right here and the U-V maps of both of those objects are one
on top of the other here and that's why I'm getting the paint happening at the same time there.
So in press control up arrow to minimize that screen.
All right.
So there's that actually I'll work on this one since there's no overlap of the mesh.
Let's take a look and see if we can find medium color in there or maybe a very bright one.
Let's try that one.
I'm going to select this one.
I'm going to reduce the size of the brush again.
Make it pretty small and this time I'm going to increase the spacing just a bit.
Increase the jitter a hair and I just want to do these highlights on the top where the light source
would be.
Generally speaking the light source is rarely ever going to be coming out from the bottom.
So I'm just going to try and work up here where the highlights would be
and then also be probably a highlight right in here as well.
Now maybe I should get a little more grime down here in the center so I'll go back to one of those darker
colors like this.
And maybe make that even a little darker.
And come in here and kind of dirty that up on the inside.
All right.
We're beginning to get kind of a patina on that.
That's looking pretty good.
I'm going to start working on the same kind of colors appear on the shoulder armor.
This is going to be a little bit different just because it's a larger surface area.
But before I begin I think him to come down here and save this image in fact what I'll do is come over
to the slots tab and just click Save all images.
There we go.
So for this let's choose our colors again.
Once again I guess I can begin with a fairly dark color here and then I'll move through with the blue
and the lighter color kind of do the same thing.
So first of all I'm going to scatter a little bit more jitter a little bit more and let me open up the
U-V editor here control up arrow and let me zoom out to see where that armor is.
There it is.
So I just want to have this in my window as I work so we've got some of that darker color laid down.
Now let's come through and work on that little bit lighter color.
This one here
and let's work on another color here this lighter color.
Maybe I'll reduce the spacing some and for this I'll actually reduce the brush size and I'll kind of
come in right along some of these designs and maybe try and give us some highlights here.
Let me try this maybe a little too much again again reduced the strength.
Let's see how this works.
Yeah something like that.
Just a light touch here.
Here we go.
Now if I go back to this other color maybe I'll even go I've got a dark color up here.
I'll try this one.
And then if I come in here and right below that line that I just painted that paint kind of a darker
line.
To emphasize that edge
something like that so you can see it here.
I think maybe I will start working more on that highlighting the designs with a light color for the
highlights and then a dark color beneath it to kind of help those pop.
So that's the way I think I'll keep working on this shoulder armor.